Solving a simple mathematical equation using Genetic Algorithm in php


Basic Philosophy:

Genetic algorithm developed by Goldberg was inspired by Darwin's theory of evolution which states that
the survival of an organism is affected by rule "the strongest species that survives". Darwin also stated
that the survival of an organism can be maintained through the process of reproduction, crossover and
mutation. Darwin's concept of evolution is then adapted to computational algorithm to find solution to a
problem called objective function in natural fashion. A solution generated by genetic algorithm is called a
chromosome, while collection of chromosome is referred as a population. A chromosome is composed
from genes and its value can be either numerical, binary, symbols or characters depending on the problem
want to be solved. These chromosomes will undergo a process called fitness function to measure the
suitability of solution generated by GA with problem. Some chromosomes in population will mate
through process called crossover thus producing new chromosomes named offspring which its genes
composition are the combination of their parent. In a generation, a few chromosomes will also mutation in
their gene. The number of chromosomes which will undergo crossover and mutation is controlled by
crossover rate and mutation rate value. Chromosome in the population that will maintain for the next
generation will be selected based on Darwinian evolution rule, the chromosome which has higher fitness
value will have greater probability of being selected again in the next generation. After several
generations, the chromosome value will converges to a certain value which is the best solution for the
problem.

refrence: https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1308/1308.4675.pdf
